# Project 3: Reddit Comment Classification

## Problem Statement

> **How well can natural langauge processing and modelling techniques discriminate between reddit comments generated by bots and reddit comments generated by real users?**


## [Data](RedditAPI_Data_Pull.ipynb)

> About 12,444 reddit comments were gathered via PRAW (Python Reddit API Wrapper). Roughly 55% of the comments are taken from [r/SubSimulatorGPT2](www.reddit.com/r/SubSimulatorGPT2), a subreddit with entirely simulated content. The SubSimulatorGPT2 content is generated with a natural language processing package [GPT-2](https://openai.com/blog/better-language-models/) by OpenAI, trained on millions of posts and comments from dozens of popular subreddits. The remaining 45% of comments were taken from the frontpage of reddit, sorted by newest posts. These are the comments that theoretically most closely resemble the simulated content. Instead of train-test splitting the comments, I separately pulled a holdout dataset roughly one-fifth the size of the training set with the same ratio of simulated and real comments. 


## [Data Preprocessing](NLP_Preprocessing.ipynb)

> Each reddit comment was stringently preprocessed before being passed into a model. Non-alphanumeric characters were removed with a RegexpTokenizer. Next misspelled words were corrected via the Speller function in the autocorrect module. All english stopwords were removed, and each word was stemmed via a PorterStemmer.


## [Modelling](NLP_Modelling.ipynb)

> Comments were vectorized according to with a CountVectorizer or TfidfVectorizer function. Multinomial Bayes, Random Forest, and Support Vector Classification models were then trained. Of the six models, the two Support Vector models yielded the highest accuracy scores on holdout data, with a **score of 70.3% and 71.0% accuracy**, for the CountVectorized and TfidfVectorized models respectively. 


## Future Directions:
*Explore more preprocessing options  

*Drill into coefficients and frequency counts for each model to establish interpretable conclusions  

*Look at only post titles  

*Improve code with nested pipelines and nested grid searches


### Slide Deck
> For a presentation tailored to a semi-technical audience, see: [Slide Deck](reddit_classification_slidedeck.pptx)